I served as an elder until the end of 2014.
And that’s when some problems came up,
and I ended up being disqualified.
I had already been serving as an elder
for nearly two years.
But at the time,
I felt that the best thing to do
would be to stop
and give up my privilege of service
so that I could care for myself emotionally.
Before I lost my privileges,
my qualifications were reviewed by the elders
on three separate occasions,
and that ended up dampening my desire
to want to serve again in the future.
I began thinking:
‘A publisher receives
the same reward as an elder.
So why should I put myself
through that all over again?’
When you resign or are disqualified
from serving as an elder,
you’re not immune
to feeling like you’re a failure,
feeling sad,
and especially feeling
that you’ve let Jehovah down.
And it’s a fight to remain active.
One of the biggest things that helped me
during that phase was my wife’s support.
She believed in me and helped motivate me.
My wife was already a pioneer,
and she encouraged me
to start pioneering too.
So within just a few months,
I had already started serving as a pioneer.
It was in the ministry
that I began to cultivate a desire
to serve once again as an elder.
Getting involved
in activities with the congregation,
helping out with the cleaning . . .
Being with my wife in the preaching work,
conducting Bible studies . . .
I had a lot of help from the brothers
who cried with me when I needed to cry
and who laughed with me
when it was possible to laugh.
A mature elder helped me to see
that I needed to leave the matter
in Jehovah’s hands.
That time period
when I stopped serving as an elder,
I can say that that may have been
when I prayed the most in all my life.
I still wasn’t an elder, but I felt at peace.
I remembered 1 John 3:20,
that “[Jehovah] is greater than our hearts”
and that he knew what I was going through.
And just because
I wasn’t serving any longer as an elder,
that didn’t make Jehovah love me any less.
That helped me a lot.
The most difficult thing to overcome
was really the resentment
that I felt toward some brothers
who had participated in the whole process.
The scripture at Psalm 119:165
helped me to see that when you’re going
through a difficult situation,
that’s the time that you need to show
that you love Jehovah.
I could see that during that time of my life,
that’s when I had to show
that I really loved Jehovah.
I would pray to Jehovah each and every day,
and I would mention those brothers by name.
That helped me to start softening my heart,
to lessen and eventually
to eliminate this resentment.
Trusting in Jehovah
was so worth it,
and I felt like it was
a great act of love on his part
to allow me once again to serve as an elder.
And it’s as if he told me,
‘Marcelo, I trust that you are going
to do a good job as an elder.’
We just have to trust in Jehovah.
When I began to show more trust,
that’s when things started happening
in a way that I couldn’t have imagined.
In less than two years,
I had already begun serving
as an elder again.
And in 2016, we received
an invitation to serve at Bethel.
My wife and I
have now been serving here at Bethel
for a little more than ten years.
When you accept the discipline,
then you stop thinking about privileges
and start thinking more about the brothers
and about being more involved
in the ministry.
I still had the most important privilege:
that of being one of Jehovah’s Witnesses.